Docs: Document Prometheus-Alertmanager integration settings (#57043)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/datasources/alertmanager/_index.md

# Alertmanager data source

Grafana includes built-in support for Alertmanager implementations in Prometheus and Mimir.
Once you add it as a data source, you can use the [Grafana Alerting UI](/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/) to manage silences, contact points, and notification policies.
To switch between Grafana and any configured Alertmanager data sources, you can select your preference from a drop-down option in those databases' data source settings pages.

## Alertmanager implementations

The data source supports [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) and [Grafana Mimir](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/) (default) implementations of Alertmanager.
You can specify the implementation in the data source's Settings page.

> When using Prometheus, contact points and notification policies are read-only in the Grafana Alerting UI because it doesn't support updating the configuration via HTTP API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Prometheus, contact points and notification policies are read-only in the Grafana Alerting UI, because it doesn't support updates to the configuration using HTTP API.
```
